

http://www.nws.noaa.gov/ost/SEC/AE/Presentations/feb_2009/AMS%20-%20AWIPS%20SOA%20Overview%20-%20White%20Paper%20%28RHenry%29.pdf
"OVERVIEW OF THE NEW AWIPS SOA"
Lawson, Griffith, Tuell, Henry
AMS February 2009.





AWIPS Advanced Weather Information Processing System

CAVE Common AWIPS Visualization Environment

ESB Enterprise Service Bus

ESRI

GEMPAK

GFE

GIS Geographical Information System

JMS Java Messaging System

RCP Rich Client Platform

SEDA Staged Event Driven Architecture

SOA Service Oriented Architecture


Design Patterns used in AWIPS (from AMS Lawson et al.)

SOA Service Pattern
Simplifies service interactions with application containers

Canonical XML Service Interface
Standardizes the request/response interface to SOA services

Component Model
Standard pattern for injecting new components

uEngine Task Execution Pattern
Enables system flexibility through re-use of small units
of execution

Geo Spatial Pattern
Enables building, displaying, analysis, and querying for data

Datatype Plugin Pattern
Enables system adaptability to new data and transforms

Legacy Adapter Pattern
Enables system evolution by allowing legacy processes to run in a
SOA

Data Notification / Subscription
Enables data driven processing and display.



Services (from AMS Lawson et al.)

Ingest
Listens on an endpoint for new data and transforms the data into a messagbe

Persist
Writes ingested data to a persistent store: file system or RDBMS

Index
Indexes the metadata extracted from the ingested data into 
a store that facilitates data searches and retrievals.

Product
Listens on an endpoint for external product requests and fulfills the 
request with a response message.  Typically receives Action scripts that
describe how to transform raw data into a visualizatio  product.

Notify
Broadcasts a product from a subscription fulfillment.  Also, sends out alerts
based on ingested data.

Subscribe
Listens on an e ndpoint fo r URI references to new dat a and determin es which products need to be rebuilt.

Auto Build
Receives re quests to build products that are under subscripti on.

Collaborate
 Provi des a commo n poi nt for serving out products that are shared by several clients.

Grid Edit
 Receives re quests to edit grids. requests to be scripted. Interfaces to a scripting engine to allow edit requests to be scripted.

Adapter
Enables legacy command line programs to be run as a standard service.


